{"Bargaining and Persuasion":"informal tool used by the president to persuade members of Congress to support his policy initiatives.",
"Commander in Chief":"The role of the president as supreme commander of the military forces of the United States and of the state National Guard units when they are called into federal service.",
"Formal Powers":"Power explicitly laid out in the constitution.",
"Executive Agreement":"A formal agreement between the U.S. president and the leaders of other nations that does not require Senate approval.",
"Executive Order":"A rule issued by the president that has the force of law.",
"Executive Privilege":"The power to keep executive communications confidential, especially if they relate to national security.",
"Informal Powers":"Powers not laid out in the Constitution but used to carry out presidential duties",
"Line-Item Veto":"Presidential power to strike, or remove, specific items from a spending bill without vetoing the entire package; declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court.",
"Pocket Veto":"President's power to kill a bill, if Congress is not in session, by not signing it for 10 days",
"Policy Agenda":"The issues that attract the serious attention of public officials and other people actively involved in politics at the time.",
"Signing Statements":"A formal document that explains why a president is signing a particular bill into law. These statements may contain objections to the bill and promises not to implement key sections.",
"Veto":"Chief executive's power to reject a bill passed by a legislature.",
"Ambassador":"an official representative of the United States appointed by the President to represent the nation in matters of diplomacy",
"Cabinet":"Advisory council for the president consisting of the heads of the executive departments, the vice president, and a few other officials selected by the president.",
"Chief of Staff":"The person who is named to direct the White House Office and advise the president.",
"Joint Chiefs of Staff":"The commanding officers of the armed services who advise the president on military policy.",
"Inherent Powers":"The powers of the national government in foreign affairs that the Supreme Court has declared do not depend on constitutional grants but rather grow out of the very existence of the national government.",
"Federalist 70":"US requires a strong, energetic executive; plural executive is dangerous",
"Imperial Presidency":"President is seen as emperor taking strong actions without consulting Congress or seeking its approval",
"Andrew Jackson":"The 7th President of the United States (1829-1837), who as a general in the War of 1812 defeated the British at New Orleans (1815). As president he opposed the Bank of America, objected to the right of individual states to nullify disagreeable federal laws, and increased the presidential powers. Use the Veto very often.",
"Abraham Lincoln":"16th President of the United States who relied on the war power to justify the Emancipation Proclamation, a presidential order overturning slavery. Suspended Habeas Corpus.",
"Franklin D. Roosevelt":"32nd US President - He began New Deal programs to help the nation out of the Great Depression, and he was the nation's leader during most of WWII. Exercised Executive Order to create Japanese internment camps during WWII.",
"Theodore Roosevelt":"1858-1919. 26th President. Increased size of Navy, 'Great White Fleet'. Added Roosevelt Corollary to Monroe Doctrine. 'Big Stick' policy. Received Nobel Peace Prize for mediation of end of Russo-Japanese war. Later arbitrated split of Morocco between Germany and France. Heavy Conservationist.",
"Stewardship Theory":"A theory that argues for a strong, assertive presidential role, with presidential authority limited only at points specifically prohibited by law.",
"Twenty-Second Amendment":"Passed in 1951, the amendment that limits presidents to two terms of office.",
"George Washington":"1st President. Called out the militia to put down the Whiskey Rebellion in 1794. He took a strong hand in foreign policy, prudently resisting British and French threats to American interests and at the same time keeping the young nation out of the European war.",
"War Powers Act":"Passed by Congress in 1973; the president is limited in the deployment of troops overseas to a sixty-day period in peacetime (which can be extended for an extra thirty days to permit withdrawal) unless Congress explicitly gives its approval for a longer period.",
"Woodrow Wilson":"28th president of the United States, known for World War I leadership, created Federal Reserve, Federal Trade Commission, Clayton Antitrust Act, progressive income tax, lower tariffs, women's suffrage (reluctantly), Treaty of Versailles, sought 14 points post-war plan, League of Nations (but failed to win U.S. ratification), won Nobel Peace Prize.",
"Bully Pulpit":"The president's use of his prestige and visibility to guide or enthuse the American public.",
"State of the Union Address":"A yearly report by the president to Congress describing the nation's condition and recommending programs and policies."}